well it's now 11 GMT that's just past
1:00 in the afternoon in Gaza where
Israel is continuing its bombardment and
ground incursion Israeli Jets and
artillery have been hitting residential
buildings and refugee camps in the strip
including in southern Gaza where Israel
had previously told Palestinians to flee
intense fighting is now underway between
Israeli forces and Palestinian Fighters
inside Gaza City and the military wing
of Hamas has fired a large barrage of
rockets as you can see towards Israel
Israeli military officials say some 250
Rockets have been launched since Friday
morning Asad be begins our
coverage Children Are Meant to play in
the
dirt but in Gaza it's their
shroud the bombing has continued in
areas that the Israeli military said
were
safe I was asleep I woke up I found
myself under the rubble I didn't find
anything all around me was logs and
rocks I tried to move but I couldn't
because there were a lot of rocks I kept
screaming and calling for the people men
came and carried me they put me in the
ambulance civil defense teams
frantically Traverse narrow streets of
Han unus in the
South Palestinians homes and lives
continue to be ripped apart many have
already moved from the north to the
South making these areas even more
densely populated than before
when the Civil Defense teams came they
were confronted by an unimaginable scene
a residential area consisting of more
than 50 houses as for the testimonies of
the civilians and residents stating that
this Square was highly populated by
residents and internally displaced
people it was targeted by more than 10
bombs launched by Israeli occupation
forces we're talking here about hundreds
killed the ceasefire has ended with more
Bloodshed in
Gaza there's fewer Hospital hospitals
operating fewer emergency vehicles and
if this rate of killing continues fewer
Palestinians left in the Gaza Strip Asad
B Al
jazer well Israel's Army has issued new
orders to further displace people in
southern Gaza an area that was already
declared safe Israel says it's now
dividing the entire Gaza Strip into
zones as you can see to let people know
which areas to leave it's now saying
that these districts you can see here in
yellow in the town of Kan that's the
largest city in the South they'll become
Areas with heavy fighting Israel is
ordering people to rather move to these
three refugee camps here now the wording
of the displacement leaflet suggests
that the survival of Palestinians is now
their own responsibility let's take a
look at the situation on the ground
after Israel isolated Gaza City up in
the north its troops have been pushing
further south along the strip's main
artery you can see it there in Black
that's the Salah Aline road we have
reports that there's been fighting all
the way down here in Al carara that's
just about 5 km Northeast of Kan yunas
now while Israel is telling Palestinians
in conun to move further south towards
Rafa as you can see there on the border
with Egypt it's also been shelling the
main roads leading to that area now one
of the few remaining options to travel
between gaza's north and south is that
black Coastal Road there the al- rashed
road but Israeli military vessels along
the Mediterranean Coastline have direct
line of fire over that
and they've been shooting at Vehicles
traveling along it well let's get more
now from the ground in Gaza we can speak
to hanim Mahmud he's in Kan yunas in the
southern Gaza Strip honey are people
following these evacuation orders I mean
in Practical terms can
they well so far it's very difficult to
follow these instructions giving that
the areas that have been ordered to
evacu with are very very densely
populated areas and then even when we
look at uh the fact that if people
wanted to follow these instructions and
move to the designated areas we look at
a very difficult situations on the
ground in terms of roads and
infrastructure for example salahadin
Road has been destroyed the very area
that connects the central part with the
southern part of kanun it has been
destroyed so people who are inside the
central part are unable to evacuate even
though like the central part is under
heavy bombardment and earlier this week
earlier of of last week they were
ordered to evacuate to some new
designated areas but here people in
kanun City particularly at the Eastern
side of Han unit the fact that the
entire area has been divided into small
zones blocks number the blocks very
close to each other very dense in terms
of population h it's very hard to move
from one block to another to get to your
safe area without passing through an
already marked block that is dangerous
so the the the the likelihood of of of
dying in another block while moving to a
safe area supposedly is very very high
in addition that the uh the Israeli
narrative is not is not well received
here uh and because the lack of faith
and a trust in what the is reallyi
military is doing now for the world
watching this M they might believe that
okay the Israeli military is doing its
best to have people avoiding being
bombed but the fact on the ground for
someone who is unfamiliar with the Gaza
Strip and its geography and the density
of the population it's very difficult
here it's very difficult for people to
move from one place to another and even
the designated new areas are small
pocket of of of sand areas that lacks a
NE Necessities in terms of water supp
supplies a food supply a Transportation
uh uh people cannot get there easily now
not only the road between the central
part and center part is has been
destroyed but also between Khan unun and
RAF the very area the people were told
to moveed to has also been destroyed so
people end up walking to those areas it
takes very long time unable to carry all
of their belongings some of them this is
their third time of
evacuation to the supposedly safe areas
it's the situations on the ground are
very very difficult some people are
making a decision of staying where they
at because they say there's no
difference of dying here or elsewhere in
Gaza honey you're describing an Ever
shrinking space for people and you
mentioned there how difficult it is for
people to get supplies especially as
they're being crammed increasingly into
these areas how are people holding up
especially now that it seems that Aid is
being restricted again too
well sadly the people are going more
hungry right now and and more thirsty as
there's no access to clean water to
drink people are resorting to either
salty water coming directly from the sea
or or contaminated water that has
already proven to be very unhealthy and
very bad for human consumption and we'
seen example of of of cases of a spread
of of infectious disease as reported by
The Who and here at local Medical Teams
report about cases of of new diseases
the sprad of infectious diseases as a a
result of consuming contaminated water
but in terms of other supplies it's very
very difficult whatever is available
here in the southern part was was barely
enough even with the with the entrance
of a humanitarian a was barely enough
for the resident of the Sun but with
with
1.5 million people a little over than
this of evacuees and this place the
needs are more dire people tend when
they are this place to consume more and
to to be in need of more supplies
compared to time when they are busy and
going through their day-to-day
activities the right now there is a need
for more of those of humanitarian aided
trucks but since the end of the Seas
fire and the blocks that have been
placed on the inurance of the Seas on on
humanitarian Aid things started to to
get very difficult so far there are
three elements we should consider people
haven't been at work for the past period
today is the 56 days of the War uh no
work no payroll people lack the
necessary cash markets are empty even if
you have the flow of cash available it's
hard to fight the basic needs that you
want from the market and if it's found
the price prices are double and for some
items has it tripled beyond the
financial capabilities of the vast
majority of the people here in in the
southern part or or in the northern part
of the Gaza Strip let's just remind
everyone Gaza Strip has been under a
blockade for the past 16 years already
people are in poverty in extreme needs
of support and and humanitarian Aid and
we the P were multiple hundreds of NOS
helping and supporting the population
now without out of the picture the the
the situations are very difficult and
and and there is there is an immediate
need for an intervention to save what's
remaining of this of this Society honey
mmud there reporting for us live from
the ground and khun in the southern part
of the Gaza Strip thank you honey